I do believe that the next generation
council or wii u xbox 720 ps4 is going
to be the last council war among the
current big three council manufacturers
and there's a lot of reasons I believe
this I really recommend that you check
out my my blog post in the link in the
description below where I go really
in-depth but just to kind of give a
quick and dirty rundown of the various
reasons I believe so for once both Sony
and Nintendo are both struggling
financially for different reasons
although they kind of share the same
common denominator in that Apple is
really giving both companies a lot of
problems Sony is the the PlayStation
brands doing fine eventually turned it
around with the ps3 slim from the fat
ps3 which did very poorly ps3 some
turned it around albeit maybe perhaps
stagnated as of late but overall the ps3
was the winner Sony struggling because
all of their other product lines are in
trouble digital cameras camcorders no
longer appeal to the mainstream with how
popular video recording and picture
taken has gotten on iPhones other
tablets compete with iPads their sony
vaio laptops compete with macbook pros
sort of trying to you know both trying
to appeal to like the luxury or you know
quality expensive yup pc market and
their tvs have been struggling against
samsung and panasonic pricing wards have
really been hurting profitability so it
unless the ps4 is a very big success
sony could very well cease to exist at
least not the way that we know it by
2020 so unless the ps4 is a big raging
success i just don't see playstation 5
happening in fact Sony's financial
problems are so bad they really need to
start turning it around otherwise we may
not even have a PlayStation 4 I then
Nintendo Wii on the other hand has been
a really great success the we did very
well although
profits on the we have been limited
because it really lacked a strong array
of third-party titles same problem that
the n64 had and although nintendo sold a
lot of wiis money from councils
primarily come from licensing fees so
the profits were someone limited the
Ender nintendo 3ds has has not been the
smash hit that nintendo DS was in part
because the iphone again same company
causing problems for sony also causing
problems for nintendo it's not really
worth it to buy a hundred one hundred
ninety nine dollar handheld to play
mario just mario by the way I mean no
strong third-party franchises outside
the Nintendo lineup when most Americans
Europeans already have smartphones and
can buy these you know social
free-to-play games like Angry Birds you
know right now so it's it's you know you
have the Nintendo fan base and kind of
the hardcore gamers that are still
buying it but in terms of mainstream
appeal their handheld lineup has lost
some so they find themselves in a
similar similar predicament with Sony
and their ps4 the Wii U has to succeed
they needed to succeed or there could
end up being no sequel to it and if the
wii u's not a success with their
handheld division similarly struggling
by 2020 or beyond the nintendo that we
see as we see it right now could be very
different as the nintendo then the xbox
360 on the other hand has been doing
very well overall made a lot of money
off licensing fees between the three
parent companies the xbox 360 has helped
Microsoft the most it's been the most
profitable and it's doing fairly well
even today the Kinect kind of breathe
some life into it they're always coming
up with you I updates Xbox Live is
always getting updated with more apps
more content more movies the xbox is
doing good although the problem is after
the Xbox 720 in terms of like future
next generation councils I'm thinking
2020 are beyond we could be seeing very
different councils partly because of
innovation and competition from the
unlikeliest places that you would not
expect a council to come out of Apple
for instance rumors are blazing abound
that they're considering getting into
the council market and this is primarily
because of all the patents they've been
falling for controller if you think
about it apple TV is the home council
right now primarily for digital
entertainment but they already have a
digital home council the only thing
that's missing an apple TV is a video
card and a wireless controller and you
already have a home cattle home council
right now the OES coming up every other
week Kickstarter's funding some random
project on pc gaming is kind of on the
rise again because of the age of the
council's i mean it's you know it's
always going to be hard to get people to
convert to pc gaming because of the
price but at the same time the american
market really demands new grad you know
improved graphics and the older councils
are they're just beginning to show their
age now they're just getting too old and
of course the as you know streaming
online a cloud gaming is becoming
popular on live gaikai and TV
manufacturers samsung panasonic
panasonic may attempt to bypass the
middleman councils and try to go
directly to the consumer embedding small
computers inside their tvs which would
make cloud gaming possible all you need
is an internet connection so you know
the xbox 360 is gonna even if they
didn't have to worry about Sony and
Nintendo there could be a lot of
competition up ahead from very unlikely
places and of course I forgot to mention
the steam box which is looking to be
another kind of low-cost digital only
alternative which may also make use of
cloud gaming in the future so the you
know what exactly we're going to see in
2020 is anyone's guess my guess is that
the current council war as we know it
between the big three I do not believe
that we're going to see a play station
five versus a fourth Xbox vs third we in
that time span or any other time spent
after that making this council war the
final council war thank you for
listening